Introduction


Soul magic awaits
- explains what soul magic is
- ends off with telling you what a spirit is

Within this world, every living body has a soul. The body is a physical vessel that the soul occupies. The soul is one's consciousness and what animates the body. It is an arcane image of who you are.
The encyclopedia arcana is a book meant to explain everything about the soul and how to potentially utilize various soul magics. Even though a soul is an arcane thing, performing soul magic is not easy.
To properly utilize soul magics you're gonna need to separate the desired magic elements from all the other junk found within a soul. These magic elements are known as spirits, magical fragments of potential.
The magical presence of a soul derives entirely from the spirits found within it. Each soul is made unique by what spirits it holds, it's safe to assume that the soul is only alive due to them too!

Spirit Magics
Soul fragments
- in depth explanation of how spirits work and their uses
- explains how to find spirits
- ends off telling you how they can alter the world

"What exactly is a spirit?" You might ask yourself. Spirits are raw, untainted magic. There are also many spirit types, all with unique uses and abilities. Perfect for your evil needs.
Each soul contains a specific set of spirits, different souls contain different combinations of spirits! When hunting for spirits you'll have to carefully think about which souls will have what you need.
When hunting spirits it is important to not leave any of them behind. Uncollected spirits will slowly dissolve into the world around and alter it into a new twisted one. Many natural wonders you may find were created this way!

Runewood
Arcane oak
- explains what runewood trees are and where to find them
- explains how runewood trees are created
- explains how to get holy extract out of runewood trees

The runewood tree is yet another result of spirits dissolving into nature. These trees can be most frequently found within plains, while also rarely appearing in forests.
When sacred and arcane spirits are infused into oak the properties of the wood will be altered and runewood will be created. This volatile process is how runewood trees are created, with the right tools you'll be able to replicate it!
Within the runewood trees a special type of sap is born. To get your hands on this holy extract you'll need to strip away the bark off of exposed logs and then bottle up all the sap you can get!
Holy extract can be used for quite a few things. Firstly, by combining it with a slimeball you'll obtain sapballs effectively providing you with three times as much slime! Secondly, you can create holy syrup by heating up your holy extract in a furnace.
Drinking this rejuvenating drink will replenish plenty of hunger and clear you of certain negative effects. Additionally if you drink it during day time health will also be restored and you'll gain a regenerative effect.

Try your best to not think about reverting sapballs into slimeballs using a certain expansion mod!
Soulstone
Altered minerals
- explains what soulstone is and where it's found
- explains how soulstone is made

The soulstone is a strange ore found both on the surface and in the deepest ends of every cave. The ore itself was created from carelessness, when a dissolved spirit merges with ore it'll shape the mineral to be something new. Soulstone is extremely valuable to any soul hunter.
Soulstone is very precious due to it's ability to resonate and mangle with souls and spirits in various ways. This unique ability of the soulstone makes it the perfect mineral to create soul hunting equipment. Any weapon made out of soulstone is most certainly sufficient for damaging an opponent's soul.

Scythes
Basic soul shattering
- explains the basic abilities of a scythe
- explains what soul shattering is
- explains how soulstone allows your scythe to shatter souls

The scythe is a very popular tool amongst soul hunters. To start it provides a strong sweeping edge effect, even more powerful than a sword's. Perfect for clearing through hordes of enemies. Additionally it has the ability to shatter souls of your victims.
When you damage a living body you destroy the vessel of a soul. However if you damage both the body and the soul you'll be able to completely eradicate your enemy, this way of mercilessly executing your enemy is known as shattering their soul and allows you to obtain your enemies spirits.
Most weapons made with a soulstone have the ability to shatter souls! The most primitive scythe available is the crude one, made from iron and a single soulstone.

When a soulstone is brought close to a soul it generates a little bit of magic. The haunted enchantment converts that magic energy into extra magic damage to anyone you strike! Higher tiers hit with even stronger magic!
The spirit plunder enchantment forces the scythe's soulstone to utilize even more magic, any soul you shatter with this enchanted scythe will yield extra spirits. This may however damage the soulstone, taking extra durability off of your scythe.
The rebound enchantment is by far the strangest one of them all. It grants you the ability to throw the scythe like a boomerang, allowing for a wacky ranged attack. Higher tiers allow you to throw the scythe more frequently.